Chapters 1 & 2 Revisions 05-02-2025 (#5113)
dfinity/motoko: doc/md/fundamentals/1-basic-syntax/9-operators.md

> 

Reviewer: I can't comment on the line above, but
```
| Bitwise    | Operations on individual bits   | `&`, `|`, ^`, `<<`, `>>`, `<<>`, `<>>` |
```
renders badly, maybe you need to escape bitwise or (vertical bar)
```
| Bitwise    | Operations on individual bits   | `&`, `\|`, ^`, `<<`, `>>`, `<<>`, `<>>` |
```

Reviewer: (there's one or two more in the file - search for `|`)

Reviewer: Using `\|` does not work (at least in my doc preview). you literally need to write  <code>&#124;</code> (as I suggested above).

:::info

> Bitwise operators can only be used with bounded types. eg: `Int8`, `Nat8`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bitwise operators can only be used with bounded types, such as `Int8` or `Nat8`.
```

| `<<>`    | Rotate left (circular shift) | `a <<> b` |
| `<>`     | Rotate right (circular shift)| `a <> b` |

:::info

> Bitwise operators can only be used with bounded types. eg: `Int8`, `Nat8`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bitwise operators can only be used with bounded types, such as `Int8` or `Nat8`.
```

| Operator | Description |Example |
|----------|------------|----------|
| `&`      | Bitwise AND |`a & b` |

> |  `\|`    | Bitwise OR | `a \| b` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  `\|`    | Bitwise OR | `a \| b` |
```
That does render properly. Use  <code>&#124;</code>

> Option blocks use the syntax `do ? <block>` to handle optional values of type `?T` without needing nested switch statements. It produces a value of type `?T`, when `<block>` has type `T` and, importantly, introduces the possibility of a break from `<block>.`

Reviewer: I'm not sure option blocks should be here at all. `do ?` isn't an operator, and `!` is a special post-fix operator that can only be used in a `do ?` block. Maybe just move this to a separate section, perhaps under 10-options-results.

Reviewer: You could just mention that `!` is a special operator and point to a later section describing do blocks.

> Within a `do ? <block>`, the `null` break `<exp> !` tests whether the result of the expression, `<exp>` of unrelated option type, `?U`, is `null`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within a `do ? <block>`, the `null` break `<exp> !` tests whether the result of the expression (`<exp>`) of unrelated option type (`?U`) is `null`.
```

If the result is `null`, control immediately exits the `do ? <block>` with value `null`. Otherwise, the result of `<exp>` must be an option value `?v`, and evaluation of `<exp> !` proceeds with its contents, `v` of type `U`.

> 

Reviewer: The following eval example is actually good (especially if the whole sections is moved to a more advance section).

I would make the example self-contained and executable (not `no-repl`), by defining the `Exp` type in the example, something like:
```
 type Exp = {#Lit : Nat; #Div : (Exp, Exp); #If : (Exp, Exp, Exp)};
 func eval ....
```

}
```

To guard against division by 0 without trapping, the eval function returns an option result, using `null` to indicate failure.

> Each recursive call is checked for `null` using `!`, immediately exiting the outer `do ?` block, and then the function itself, when a result is `null`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each recursive call is checked for `null` using `!`. This immediately exits the outer `do ?` block and then the function itself when a result is `null`.
```

> 

Reviewer: This section doesn't discuss and or and not and the fact that or and and are short-circuiting
